## RA-repertoire: Rheumatoid Arthritis Synovial TCR Repertoire Database

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease of complex etiology in which adaptive immune responses mediated by T play a major role in driving synovial inflammation and joint damage. In order to carry out their effector functions, naïve T cells conventionally require an initial antigen-specific stimulus encoded for and transduced through their T cell receptor (TCR). TCR-mediated recognition is also required for targeted cell lysis. While numerous studies have sought to characterize the functional roles of distinct T cell populations in RA and have demonstrated their local patterns of oligoclonal expansion, the antigen specificities of synovial T cells remain poorly understood studied outside of a few epitopes, and open resources of TCRs and overall repertoires associated with RA are lacking.

To help accelerate research efforts into the TCR repertoires and T cell antigen specificities of T cell clones in RA, we report here a pool of novel synovial TCR repertoires mined using a repertoire reconstruction algorithm from large-cohort RNA sequencing datasets. The first, GSE89408 (Guo Y et al. J Immunol. 2017, PMID 28455435, and Walsh AM et al. PLoS One. 2017, PMID 28863153), had previously been utilized to identify transcriptome signatures in the synovium of RA patients associated with disease progression. The second, PEAC (Lliso-Ribera G et al. Ann Rheum Dis. 2019, PMID 31582377 and Lewis MJ et al. Cell Rep. 2019, PMID 31461658), sought to focus on early, treatment-naïve patients and identify transcriptome signatures contributing to disease establishment. By exploring these cohorts in the hitherto unnavigated immune repertoire dimension, we hope to accelerate ongoing effort to collect and compile together human TCR repertoires of RA patients. As such, we are continuing to search for additional datasets that may be relevant. All data associated with the previously reconstructed repertoires can be found here. We hope this resource can be used to searched against with TCR sequences repertoires recovered identified in future work to better contextualize the sequences recovered. If any researchers have any RNAseq or TCRseq data derived from RA and/or other autoimmune diseases, we would be more than happy to incorporate it into this resource. Feel free to contact us if you need any assistance with resource! 
